SESSION 5

Containers ll not support auto scaling 

Scale up : whenever the traffic increase towards app we have  to increase no of servers 
There are 2 kind of scaling : vertical scaling and horoizontal 

Verticals scaling means we have to increase the system resources 
Horizontals auto scaling : means we have to add additional server to existing infrastructure 
So the container ll not support it 


 Scale down : 
When traffic goes slow towards the application .. we have to remove the additional servers 

Containers ll not supports load balancing 
If we lose the container we are going to get application downtime 
Containers l not supports self healing system 
To over come the problem we are  moving towards the 

What is Kubernetes : kuburnetes is a tool or it is going to manage all the containers ..
It performs the automated deployment of the application

Kubernetes feature : 
1. Orchitrtion
2. Autoscaling 
3. Load balancing 
4. Self healing 

It is a platform independent 
We can run it on a any cloud 
To perform the automation Kubernetes ..we are going to write manifested files 

1. Create a jump server or 
2.We have to install kupecel , ekcplkubernetes service , aws 

Understand what is cluster : 
 1.Kubernetes ll manage the application in cluster 
 Cluster is a group of nodes it contains master nodes and worker nodes 
Master node is the hero of the cluster which is going to take care cluster head 
Master node is responsible for total health of the cluster 
Worker node : it is nothing but like a server where we can 
In  a cluster at least we should have one master node and one worker node 

There are 2 types of cluster : 
On premises cluster : manage cluster by ourself if something goes down in application v are the responsible for that 
Cloud manage cluster : this clusters manage by the cloud providers 
We are responsible for our app 
In was if we want to create a cluster we have a service called  eks 
 In a master node there are 4 components we have 
1. Api server hero: whenever we want tp perform auto scaling it is playing a crucial role 
2. Etcd : it is a distributed database where we are going to store info about the cluster and application inside the etc
3. Controller : it is responsible for monitoring health of the application : this is always to check the desired state == actual state \
4. Scheduler : scheduler is a component it is going to schedule a pod in a node it is responsible for scheduling a pod in a node Kubernetes ll run the app in a pod ..it contains containers …pod is the smallest deployment unit in a kubenetes  
Worker node conponent: 
1. Kubelet : it is responsible for creating pods it is going to act as an agent . Something goes wrong in a worker node it ll communicate in a master node 
2. Container run time : is nothing but like docker .. it is responsible for pulling the docker image creating the containers starting the containers it is responsible for managing the containers lifecycle 
3. kube=proxy : it is a networking component in wokrer node . It is responsible for creating deployment exposing app to internet 


Api version  : it defines schema representation of the object 
Kind defies what kind of object that you are creating 
Meta data defines name of the object 
Spec defines behaviour of the object 
